---
layout: posts
title: Henry Yip
katex: False
comments: True
categories: Henry
sidebar:
 nav: "Contributors"
permalink: /Contributors/HenryYip/
---
## Education 

2021-2025 **BSc Mathematical Physics (Hons), University of Edinburgh**

I spent an **enormous** amount of time in these posts. **Please** read them
[Astrophysics Notes]
[Chess Series]

I have a plethora of interests: 
### Quantum Physics
As a Mathematical Physics Major, I study physics with mathematical rigor. Currently, my favourite topic is Quantum Mechanics, in particular, derivations revolved around the Schrödinger Equation, which is quite difficult sometimes.

Note: If you are interested in the basics of this field, you can read [Modern Physics, Second Edition](https://www.pearson.com/us/higher-education/math---science/physics---astronomy/physics---astronomy/intermediate-physics/modern-physics.html), by **Randy Harris**. Basic Calculus is a prerequisite. (And also Curl and Divergence and so on).I first read this when I was in F6 and was a bit stuck in the exercises, but nevertheless completed most parts. Note that the book lacks mathematical rigour in some part, so it only provides basic understandings towards some important concepts, such as operators, well-defined observables, etc. Also if you want to understand some of the analogies, you also need basic understanding in electromagnetism (at least, Maxwell's Equations!)

### Meteorology
Aside from Physics and Mathematics, I am a meteorologist, specializing in tropical cyclones formation and its history. I started chasing typhoons when I was in P3, and read almost all [Hong Kong Observatory's annual publications](https://www.hko.gov.hk/en/publica/pubtc.htm)! My favourite topic is the rapid intensitication of tropical cyclones, which sometimes lead to a phenonmenon called Hot Tower. It was observed in Typhoon Vicente, as frequent lightnings were recorded in its walls. Hato (2017), Higos(2020) are also examples of Rapid Intensification, and its occurance poses a real concern to weather forecast systems. 

### Classical Music
I play both Piano and Violin, and I am officially a Mahlerian, while also listening extensively to Brahms, Beethoven, Bruckner, Tchaikovsky, and even more obscure composers like Korngold, Hummel, etc. My favourite pieces are: Mahler Symphony No.7. Tchaikovksy: Romeo and Juliet, etc. More in: [Henry's Classical Playlist]. I also listen to basically all recordings of everything from the 1940s, with **Kirill Kondrashin** as my favourite conductor

### Running
I used to run in **SPCC Cross Country Team**, specilizing in 5000m and 10000m while also, occasionally, running 400m and 1500m. I am definitely not a good runner as I don't really practice strategically. However, it sure is a good way to relax and doing sports is scientifically proven to increase study efficiency (and obviously, 
ensures good health)

### Chess
Chess is something I picked up a year ago. I suck at all formats so the only thing I really do is analyse positions and chess puzzles and learn openings. I am about to create a very extensive section on this. Hope you'll enjoy!
More on: [Chess Openings]

### Duck
Duck rhymes with a lot of things
Like duck.
